data/blog: tclip post (#151)
tailscale-dev/tailscale-dev: data/blog/tclip.mdx

---
title: 'tclip: A pastebin for your tailnet'
date: 2023-08-11
summary: Sometimes you need to paste text between your machines or coworkers. tclip is a Tailscale-powered pastebin that lets you do just that.
authors: ['xe']
tags:
  - tsnet
  - funnel
images: ['/images/tclip/social.jpg']
---

> As a developer, there are many times when you need to share little snippets of text with your friends or team. The tool I used the most for this is GitHub [gists](https://gist.github.com). This lets you upload little snippets of text, and it a publicly shareable link to it.

Reviewer: missing word in "it a publicly"

While I was playing around with tsnet, I got the idea to make a little pastebin clone using it. And then Funnel was announced. The hacker gear started turning, and I did a little exploration of the problem space and came up with tclip. I wanted to make a tool that I would feel comfortable with using every day, if I got to bring in a bunch of other cool technology into it as well, that would be even more cool.

So I ended up with tclip.

<Image
  className="mt-2"
  src="/images/tclip/frontpage.png"
  width={1804}
  height={870}

>   alt="The homescreen of tea clip, showing a textbox labeled 'create new paste'"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="The homescreen of tclip, showing a textbox labeled 'create new paste'"
```

/>

The core of the entire program can be summarized in this entire image. It is a box that you can type text in, and submit it to the server. Then you get a link that you can use to share with your friends and coworkers. That's it. That's the entire program.

> If you put code in the box and then name the file appropriately, your file will be syntax highlighted. There's a commandline tool that you can use to pipe the output of commands or upload files directly to your tclip server so you can share them with your team and friends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you put code in the box and then name the file appropriately, your file will be syntax highlighted. There's a command line tool that you can use to pipe the output of commands or upload files directly to your tclip server so you can share them with your team and friends.
```

If you click on the `List` link in the top, you can see a list of all the pastes that have been created recently, but the main screen will show the last 5 pastes just so you can get to the one you want to see a little bit quicker. If you put [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) in the box and end your filename in `.md`, it'll be rendered as HTML for you. We've hidden a few other things to spark joy like this, like an [Emacs package](https://github.com/tailscale-dev/tclip/blob/main/contrib/tclip.el) and the ability to run as a [systemd portable service](https://systemd.io/PORTABLE_SERVICES/).

<HeroImage
  width={1280}
  height={512}
  desc="An albino pidgeon behind a normal one as found on Oberbaumbrücke in Berlin. Photo by Xe Iaso, 2023."
  src="/images/tclip/hero.jpg"
/>

## Installation

> The easiest way to use tclip is and to install it on fly.io. You can do that by doing the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to use tclip is to install it on fly.io. You can do that by doing the following:
```

> First, get an authkey from [the admin panel](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys). It is a good idea to associate this with the tag `tag:service` or its own `tag:tclip`. Please also do not set the `ephemeral` tag as that will destroy the node when the service shuts down.

Reviewer: Use a pattern like:

`...from the [**Keys**](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys) page of the admin console.

> First, get an authkey from [the admin panel](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys). It is a good idea to associate this with the tag `tag:service` or its own `tag:tclip`. Please also do not set the `ephemeral` tag as that will destroy the node when the service shuts down.

Reviewer: We don't use "please" in the KB (go/wordlist). 

Not sure if the same applies to the blog post. "Please" is also mentioned on the last line in this file.

> Make sure you have MagicDNS enabled [in the admin panel](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/dns), see [here](https://tailscale.com/kb/1081/magicdns/) for more information. This is required for most of the defaults for the `tclip` command and the Emacs package to work.

Reviewer: See UI pattern above.

Use "admin console" instead of "admin panel".

Reviewer: Don't use "here" as link text.

https://github.com/tailscale/tailscale-www/blob/main/style-guide.md#avoid-here-or-similar-as-link-text

destination = "/data"
```

Replace `FLY_APP_NAME` with a name such as `yourorg-tclip` and
then run these commands with [the `flyctl` command](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl/):

```
$ flyctl apps create FLY_APP_NAME
$ flyctl volumes create tclip_data
$ flyctl secrets set TS_AUTHKEY=<key>
$ flyctl deploy
```

You should be able to open the app at [http://paste](http://paste) and
paste to your heart's content.

There are more detailed instructions on the [tclip GitHub repo](https://github.com/tailscale-dev/tclip#deploying) if you want to deploy to your own host running Docker or a Linux machine running a modern version of systemd.

## Usage

If you know how to use a web form, you know how to use tclip. Paste your text into the box. Give it a filename. Hit submit. Share the link. There is no next step. It will be available on your tailnet for whoever wants to access it.

If you want to limit access to your tclip server, you can do so with [Tailscale ACL rules](https://tailscale.com/kb/1018/acls/).

All pastes are automatically attributed to the person that posted them, thanks to Tailscale already knowing who you are.

## The Tailscale magic: Funnel integration

> However, it doesn't stop there. The real magic comes when we integrate this with [Funnel](https://tailscale.dev/blog/embedded-funnel) so that you can share your pastes publicly. If you enable Funnel egress with the `USE_FUNNEL=true` environment variable (or the `--use-funnel` flag), tclip will register itself publicly with funnel to allow people to view only the following:

Reviewer: Use a relative link (/blog/embedded-funnel), because its on the site. I think that would work for tailscale.dev, and make the source more readable.

---
title: 'tclip: A pastebin for your tailnet'
date: 2023-04-01

> summary: Xe goes over how they made a pastebin tool for your tailnet that wouldn't be possible without Tailscale.

Author: Needs rephrase to match style

destination = "/data"
```

Replace `FLY_APP_NAME` with a name such as `yourorg-tclip` and
then run these commands with [the `flyctl` command](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl/):

```
$ flyctl apps create FLY_APP_NAME
$ flyctl volumes create tclip_data
$ flyctl secrets set TS_AUTHKEY=<key>
$ flyctl deploy
```

You should be able to open the app at [http://paste](http://paste) and
paste to your heart's content.

There are more detailed instructions on the [tclip GitHub repo](https://github.com/tailscale-dev/tclip#deploying) if you want to deploy to your own host running Docker or a Linux machine running a modern version of systemd.

## Usage

If you know how to use a web form, you know how to use tclip. Paste your text into the box. Give it a filename. Hit submit. Share the link. There is no next step. It will be available on your tailnet for whoever wants to access it.

If you want to limit access to your tclip server, you can do so with [Tailscale ACL rules](https://tailscale.com/kb/1018/acls/).

All pastes are automatically attributed to the person that posted them, thanks to Tailscale already knowing who you are.

## The Tailscale magic: Funnel integration

> {/* Xe\ Meta note: there's a reason I'm only getting into the funnel magic this late into the article. Statistically, most people that read our articles drop out asymptotically every paragraph. By placing the real juicy stuff near the end of an article, you automatically select for the people that are _actually interested in reading it_ without any additional work on your part. Ain't that super neat? This asymptotic dropoff curve usually leads to things like the "lead with a summary" trick most online publishers use, but you can use this _to your advantage_ to target the people you really want to benefit from something. */}

Author: Remove this
